---
title: Creating this Blog
date: '2024-09-18'
categories:
- Svelte
- SvelteKit
- FrontEnd
estimatedReadingTimeInMins: 2
author: Ajay Gupta
---

Wondering how I created this site? Coming into this, I didn't know the first thing about web development, and I still don't know too much (which you may be able to tell by looking at the current state of this site, at least at the time of writing). 

This site was created using [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/), with the basic skeleton taken from a [tutorial](https://joshcollinsworth.com/blog/build-static-sveltekit-markdown-blog) by Josh Collinsworth on building a static Markdown blog from scratch. I was originally looking into using a static site generator like Hugo since I feel as though blogs that I read on sites powered by Hugo look pretty nice, but I decided that I may want additional flexibility in the future, and thus decided to go with SvelteKit after doing a bit of research on JavaScript frameworks. The way I have things currently set up (and the same way it is set up in the tutorial) is that whenever I want to create a new blog post, I write its contents in a new Markdown file, along with some frontmatter that act as metadata related to the blog post. This way, I don't have to mess around with code whenever I want to create a new post. I can focus on my writing. 

The primary purpose in me creating this site is so that I can document my thoughts on things as I learn them or whenever I find something that I think might be cool and worth sharing. Writing, to me, feels like it's a lot more deliberate of an activity than, say, speaking or reading. And when I write, I'm forced to understand what I'm writing about on a deeper level. It's also nice that I can reach a wider audience. 

As I mentioned earlier, the site doesn't look too great right now, but hopefully I can improve upon it in the future. 
